Add a new section for transitioning indices to data streams (#2216)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md

When you continuously index timestamped documents into {{es}}, you typically use a [data stream](../../data-store/data-streams.md) so you can periodically [roll over](rollover.md) to a new index. This enables you to implement a [hot-warm-cold architecture](../data-tiers.md) to meet your performance requirements for your newest data, control costs over time, enforce retention policies, and still get the most out of your data.

To simplify index management and [automate rollover](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/rollover.md#ilm-automatic-rollover), select one of the scenarios that best applies to your situation:

* When ingesting write-once, timestamped data that doesn't change, follow the steps in [Manage time series data with data streams](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-time-series-data-with-data-streams) for simple, automated data stream rollover. ILM-managed backing indices are automatically created under a single data stream alias. ILM also tracks and transitions the backing indices through the lifecycle automatically. 

> * [Data streams](../../data-store/data-streams.md) are best suited for [append-only](../../data-store/data-streams.md#data-streams-append-only) use cases. If you need to update or delete existing time series data, you can perform update or delete operations directly on the data stream backing index. If you frequently send multiple documents using the same `_id` expecting last-write-wins, you may want to use an index alias with a write index instead. You can still use [ILM](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md) to manage and [roll over](rollover.md) the alias’s indices. Skip to [Manage time series data without data streams](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-time-series-data-without-data-streams).

Reviewer: This sentence is too complex for the introduction. The objective of this bullet is to ensure the user understand that if they want to manage REGULAR INDICES (not data streams) and apply rollover, they need to XXX.

My proposal (if we want to leave that original sentence is to keep that in a separate note / tip).

I'll ping you in private to check options, but the introduction should clearly identify the 3 tutorials in this way:

- Implement rollover for Data Streams
- Implement rollover for regular indices (not data streams).
- Implement rollover for data without timestamp.

That's what we need to transmit somehow, with nice wording but being clear and straight.

Author: Addressed in a separate commit, thank you.

GET timeseries-*/_ilm/explain
```

## Manage general content with data streams [manage-general-content-with-data-streams]

[Data streams](/manage-data/data-store/data-streams.md) are specifically designed for time series data.

> If you want to manage general content (data without timestamps) with data streams, you can set up [ingest pipelines](/manage-data/ingest/transform-enrich/ingest-pipelines.md) to transform and enrich your general content at [ingest](/manage-data/ingest.md) time, so that you can transition from periodic indices to a data stream and get the benefits of time-based data management.

Author: Thanks, Edu! Instead of a warning I added an example for context to (hopefully) help users determine if this procedure fits their scenario/use case.

To migrate your general content from indices to a data stream, you:

1. [Create an ingest pipeline](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-general-content-with-data-streams-ingest) to process your general content and add a `@timestamp` field.

1. [Create a lifecycle policy](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-general-content-with-data-streams-policy) that meets your requirements.

1. [Create an index template](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-general-content-with-data-streams-template) that uses the created ingest pipeline and lifecycle policy.

1. [Create a data stream](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-general-content-with-data-streams-create-stream).

1. [Reindex with a data stream](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-general-content-with-data-streams-reindex) to copy your documents from an existing index to the data stream you created.

> 1. [Roll over](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/tutorial-automate-rollover.md#manage-general-content-with-data-streams-roll-over) the reindexed data stream so that the lifecycle policy and ingest pipeline you created will be applied to new data.

Author: Thank you. That's a good point, I'm not sure why this step was included in the knowledgebase tutorial, but I will reach out to Zoia to double-check with her.

```console
PUT /_data_stream/movetods
```

### Optional: Reindex your data with a data stream [manage-general-content-with-data-streams-reindex]

If you want to copy your documents from an existing index to the data stream you created, reindex with a data stream using the [_reindex API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-reindex):

```console
POST /_reindex
{
  "source": {
    "index": "indextods"
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "movetods",
    "op_type": "create"
    
  }
}
```

For more information, check [Reindex with a data stream](../../data-store/data-streams/use-data-stream.md#reindex-with-a-data-stream).

### Optional: Roll over the reindexed data stream [manage-general-content-with-data-streams-roll-over]

Use the [_rollover API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-indices-rollover) to create a new write index for the stream. This ensures that the lifecycle policy and ingest pipeline you've created will apply to any new documents that you index.

```console
POST movetods/_rollover
```

### Update your ingest endpoint to target the created data stream [manage-general-content-with-data-streams-endpoint]

> If you use Elastic clients, scripts, or any other 3rd party tool to ingest data to Elasticsearch, make sure you update these to use the created data stream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use Elastic clients, scripts, or any other third party tool to ingest data to {{es}}, make sure you update these to use the created data stream.
```
